docs/vt: document a bunch of OSCs (#399)
ghostty-org/website: docs/vt/concepts/colors.mdx

---
title: Colors
description: All sorts of information regarding colors in terminal emulation.
---

Ghostty emulates a full 256-color palette, as well as 5 **special colors**
and 3 **dynamic colors**.

## Special Colors

The special colors, when specified, are used to color cells with particular
styles — bold, underline, blink, reversed and italic. They can be queried
or changed either with [OSC 4] using indices from 256 to 260 inclusive,
or [OSC 5] with indices from 0 to 4 inclusive respectively. The ordinary
palette colors are used instead of special colors when not specified.

[OSC 4]: /docs/vt/osc/4-5
[OSC 5]: /docs/vt/osc/4-5

## Dynamic Colors

The dynamic colors are used by the terminal to color cells independent of
their own styles, when they are selected, highlighted, etc. They are also

> supposed to be *dynamically updated* by programs after the terminal has been

Reviewer: “supposed to” implies it *should* be done by programs, when it's completely optional as far as I know.

```suggestion
their own styles, when they are selected, highlighted, etc. They can also
be *dynamically updated* by programs after the terminal has been
```

initialized, hence their name. Ghostty currently supports three of these
colors: the foreground color, the background color and the cursor color,
which are queried or modified with [OSCs 10 to 12] respectively.

[OSCs 10 to 12]: /docs/vt/osc/1x

## Color Specifications

Each color in the terminal is specified with a **color specification**.
These originated from xterm, which allows any string that can be parsed by
X11's standard [`XParseColor`] function to serve as a color. However, since
Ghostty supports platforms other than X11, we have our own color parser that
is compatible but not guaranteed to be the same as xterm, which is
documented below.

[`XParseColor`]: https://linux.die.net/man/3/xparsecolor

### Hexadecimal RGB

<VTSequence sequence={["rgb:", "Pr", "/", "Pg", "/", "Pb"]} /><br/>
<VTSequence sequence={["#", "Pr", "Pg", "Pb"]} />

Where each of `r`, `g` and `b` can be one to four hexadecimal digits,

> corresponding to 4, 8, 12 or 16 bit color channels respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
corresponding to 4, 8, 12 and 16 bit color channels respectively.
```

I think.
